chore(webhooks): Add webhooks integration documentation (#1839)
mendersoftware/mender-docs: 08.Server-integration/07.Webhooks/docs.md

taxonomy:
    category: docs
---

Mender supports Webhooks to send data to third-party systems. With this mechanism, it's possible to notify external applications about device lifecycle events. This helps you avoid polling and manual synchronization between Mender and other systems.

This integration is available in all Mender plans, as well as Mender Open Source.

## Prerequisites

### A Mender server and device

You need a device integrated with Mender, see the [Get started guide](../../01.Get-started/01.Preparation/01.Prepare-a-Raspberry-Pi-device/docs.md).

### External service

You need an external service or application exposed on the internet and able to receive data from Mender in the form of an HTTP POST request.

## Supported events

### Device triggers

A Webhook fires on device lifecycle events:
* device provisioning,
* device decommissioning, or
* its authentication status changes.

## Configure and enable Webhooks in Mender

To send data from Mender to your application, you need to set up the integration by providing a unique URL and an optional secret.

Open the Mender UI and navigate to `Settings` -> `Integrations`:

![integrations settings](image_1_a.png)

> 

Reviewer: You can remove a new line.

Author: Done!

![integrations webhooks](image_1_b.png)

Choose the `Webhooks` integration and enter your application URL and necessary credentials (optional):

![integration setup](image_2.png)

> ![integration setup](image_3.png)

Reviewer: You can add a new line between the two images (I'm not sure about how they'll render without the new line).

Author: Done!

---
title: Webhooks
taxonomy:
    category: docs
---

> Mender supports sending data to third-party systems over webhooks. With this mechanism, it's possible to notify the external application about device lifecycle events. This helps you avoid polling and manual synchronization between Mender and other systems.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Mender supports Webhooks to send data to third-party systems. With this mechanism, it's possible to notify external applications about device lifecycle events. This helps you avoid polling and manual synchronization between Mender and other systems.
```

Author: done!

This integration is available in all Mender plans, as well as Mender Open Source.

## Prerequisites

### A Mender server and device

You need a device integrated with Mender, see the [Get started guide](../../01.Get-started/01.Preparation/01.Prepare-a-Raspberry-Pi-device/docs.md).

### External service

> You need an external service/application able to receive data from Mender.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You need an external service or application exposed on the internet and able to receive data from Mender in the form of an HTTP POST request.
```

Author: done!

## Supported events

### Device triggers

> A webhook fires during device lifecycle events:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Webhook fires on device lifecycle events:
```

Author: done!

* device provisioning,
* device decommissioning, or
* its authentication status changes.

> ## Configuring Mender to enable webhooks

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Configure and enable Webhooks in Mender
```

Author: done!

> To send data to your application via Mender, you need to set up the integration by providing a unique URL and set of credentials.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send data from Mender to your application, you need to set up the Webhooks integration by providing a unique URL and an optional secret.
```

Author: done!

Open the Mender UI and navigate to `Settings` -> `Integrations`:

![integrations settings](image_1_a.png)

![integrations webhooks](image_1_b.png)

> Choose the `Webhook` integration and enter your application URL and necessary credentials (optional):

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Choose the `Webhooks` integration and enter your application URL and necessary credentials (optional):
```

Author: done!

![integration setup](image_2.png)
![integration setup](image_3.png)

> After creating the webhook, you will see it is listed in the integrations list. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
After creating the Webhooks integration, you will see it in the integrations list.
```

Author: done!

![integration list](image_4.png)

> You can see details of given webhook after proceeding to its details:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can see details of a given Webhooks integration proceeding to its details:
```

Author: done!

![webhook view](image_5.png)

> You can also see the device activity ine the `Activity` tab:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can also see the Webhooks activity in the `Activity` tab:
```

Author: done!

> ![webhook details](image_6.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![webhooks details](image_6.png)
```

Author: done!

> ## Data sent with the events

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Events details
```

Author: done!

The event data sent to your application, depending on the event type, may look like this:

```json
{
  "id": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",
  "type": "device-provisioned",
  "delivery_statuses": [
    {
      "integration_id": "",
      "success": true,
      "status_code": 200,
    },
  ],
  "time": "0001-01-01T00:00:00Z",
  "data": {

>     "id": "00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000",

Reviewer 2: For `device-provissioned` events, the entire AuthSet of the device is passed in the event body as specified in the API docs. To be consistent, I would either populate the rest of the data or change the event type to `device-decommissioned`.

Author: I changed the event type and the whole payload to `device-status-changed`, I believe this might be a slightly more representative example. Thanks!

  },
}
```

> Allowed event types:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The list of allowed event types follows:
```

Author: done!

* `device-provisioned`
* `device-decommissioned`
* `device-status-changed`

> Device authentication event may consist of the following fields:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The device authentication event consists of the following fields:
```

Author: done!

Author: done!

* `id` - device unique ID,
* `status` - the authentication status of the device,
* `auth_sets` - array of device authentication sets,
* `created_ts` - the time the device was initialized in Mender.

The properties included depend on the event type:
* device provisioning includes the entire device with the accepted authentication set, 
* status change events only include the device id and the new status, 
* device decommissioning will only include the device id.

> More information about payload possibilities are available in the `iot-manager` management API specification.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
More information about payload possibilities are available in the [iot-manager](https://github.com/mendersoftware/iot-manager) management API specification.
```

Author: done!

### Signature header

> If a secret is provided, an integrity check is calculated and located in the `X-Men-Signature-Payload` header, which contains the HMAC-SHA256 of the payload using the configured secret.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you specify a secret, an integrity check is calculated and located in the `X-Men-Signature-Payload` header, which contains the HMAC-SHA256 of the payload using the configured secret.
```

Author: done!
